Updated creating a  property editor part 4 (#6020)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 10/umbraco-cms/tutorials/creating-a-property-editor/part-4.md

## Setup ApiController routes

Next, we need to define an `ApiController` to expose a server-side route that our application will use to fetch the data.

For this, you can create a new class at the root of the project called `PersonApiController.cs`

In the `PersonApiController.cs` file, add:

```csharp
    using Umbraco.Cms.Web.BackOffice.Controllers;
    using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Attributes;

    namespace YourProjectName;
    [PluginController("My")]
    public class PersonApiController : UmbracoAuthorizedJsonController
    {
        // we will add a method here later
    }
```

> This is a very basic API controller that inherits from `UmbracoAuthorizedJsonController` this specific class and will only return JSON data and only to requests which are authorized to access the backoffice.

Author: ```suggestion
This is a very basic API controller that inherits from `UmbracoAuthorizedJsonController`. This specific class will only return JSON data and only to requests that are authorized to access the backoffice.
```

}
```

> Inside the `GetAll()` method, we now write a bit of code, that connects to the database, creates a query, and returns the data, mapped to the `Person` class above:

Author: ```suggestion
Inside the `GetAll()` method, we write a bit of code. The code connects to the database, creates a query, and returns the data, mapped to the `Person` class above:
```

```csharp
private readonly Umbraco.Cms.Infrastructure.Scoping.IScopeProvider scopeProvider;

> public PersonApiController(Umbraco.Cms.Infrastructure.Scoping.IScopeProvider scopeProvider)

Reviewer: instead of adding twice Umbraco.Cms.Infrastructure.Scoping when defining the class, it can be added only once as a namespace: using Umbraco.Cms.Infrastructure.Scoping;

Maybe this might be better and also best practice instead of adding a namespace inside a class?
![image](https://github.com/umbraco/UmbracoDocs/assets/83591955/96102434-419e-4bb6-93ca-dc2556ac7f9b)

Author: That does seem more correct than whatever it is I am doing 😅

3. The personResource returns a Promise and asks the my/PersonAPI ApiController
4. The ApiController queries the database, which returns the data as strongly typed Person objects
5. The ApiController returns those `Person` objects as JSON to the resource
6. The resource resolves the Promise
7. The controller populates the view

There is a good amount of things to keep track of, but each component is tiny and flexible.

## Wrap-up

> The important part of the above is the way you create a `ApiController` call to the database for your own data, and finally expose the data to angular as a service using `$http`.

Author: ```suggestion
The important part of the above is the way you create an `ApiController` call to the database for your own data. And finally, expose the data to angular as a service using `$http`.
```

> For simplicity, you could also have skipped the service part and called `$http` directly in your controller, but by having your data in services, it becomes a reusable resource for your entire application.

Author: ```suggestion
For simplicity, you could have skipped the service part and called `$http` directly in your controller. However, having your data in services it becomes a reusable resource for your entire application.
```
